feat(rewrite): document rewrite APIs (#8914)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/guides/middleware.mdx

validation response
```

## Rewriting

<Since v="4.13.0" />

The `APIContext` exposes a method called `rewrite`, which works the same way as [Astro.rewrite](/en/guides/routing/#rewrites).

> The `next` function optionally accept a parameter that allows to **rewrite** the current `Request`. For example, if a user isn't logged in, you could **rewrite** the current request without the need of a redirect:

Author: I removed this part:
> This executes [`context.rewrite()`](/en/reference/api-reference/#contextrewrite) using the provided value (`rewritePayload`)

Because it's incorrect. They are two separate functions with two separate business logic.

```js title="src/middleware.js"
import { isLoggedIn } from "~/auth.js"
export function onRequest (context, next) {
  if (!isLoggedIn(context) {
    // The user is not logged in, then we rewrite the current `Request` with a new one, and create an header
    // The header will tell to the `/login` where the user should be sent after a successfully login.
    return next(new Request("/login", {
      headers: {
        "x-redirect-to": context.url.pathname
      }
    }));
  }

  return next();
};
```

The `next` function accepts the same payload of the [`Astro.redirect() function`](/en/reference/api-reference/#astrorewrite).

In case you have multiple middleware functions chained via [sequence](#chaining-middleware), using `next("/")` with  a payload will rewrite the request **in place** which means that the next middleware function will receive the **new `Request`**:

> ```js

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
```js title="src/middleware.js"
``````

> // This is the first middleware function that will be triggered by Astro 
> async function first(_, next) {
>   // Let's suppose the current URL is https://exmpale.com/blog
>   console.log(ctx.url.pathname) // this will log "/blog"
>   // We rewrite to a new route, the homepage 
>   return next("/")
> }
> 
> // This is the second middleware function that will be triggered by Astro
> async function second(ctx, next) {
>   // `ctx` will contain new information, computed by the previous rewrite
>   console.log(ctx.url.pathname) // this will log  "/"    
>   return next()
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Current URL is https://example.com/blog

// First middleware function
async function first(_, next) {
  console.log(ctx.url.pathname) // this will log "/blog"
  // Rewrite to a new route, the homepage 
  // Return updated `ctx` which is passed to next function
  return next("/")
}

// Current URL is still https://example.com/blog

// Second middleware function
async function second(ctx, next) {
  // Receives updated `ctx`
  console.log(ctx.url.pathname) // this will log  "/"    
  return next()
}
```
Just tried to make this a bit more compact, and also emphasizing that the URL hasn't changed. Maybe something like this?

validation response
```

## Rewriting

<Since v="4.13.0" />

> The `APIContext` exposes a method called `rewrite`, which works the same way as [Astro.rewrite](/en/guides/routing/#rewrites).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `APIContext` exposes a method called `rewrite`, which works the same way as [Astro.rewrite](/en/guides/routing/#rewrite).
```

```js title="src/middleware.js"
import { isLoggedIn } from "~/auth.js"
export function onRequest (context, next) {
  if (!isLoggedIn(context) {
    // If the user is not logged in, update the Request to render the `/login` route and
    // add header to indicate where the user should be sent after a successful login.
    return context.rewrite(new Request("/login", {
      headers: {
        "x-redirect-to": context.url.pathname
      }
    }));
  }

  return next();
};
```

> The `next` function optionally accept a parameter that allows to **rewrite** the current `Request`. For example, if a user isn't logged in, you could **rewrite** the current request without the need of a redirect:

Reviewer: I'm not sure what the difference between these two slightly different methods is, practically speaking. Do they both do the exact same thing in the end?

If we are going to show both, is the point to say that you can "do the same thing either way"? Is the second one a "convenient shortcut" or preferable in any way? These examples look very similar on first glance, and someone might have trouble seeing the difference without looking closely. So it's helpful if we can draw the reader's attention to why we are showing them two slightly different examples, and what we want them to learn from them.

And, if you expect people to use only ONE of them 80% of the time, it's often OK to only show the common/preferred one. If they both have their place/advantages, then it's helpful if we explain why when we show both.

Author: Ok, I think I see the confusion, probably because I put the important bits in the incorrect context. Here's the breakdown:

`ctx.rewrite`:
- it retriggers a new rendering phase (the middleware is called again)
- it doesn't call subsequent middleware functions, in case `sequence` is used

`next()` with payload
- it doesn't retrigger a new rendering phase
- it calls subsequent middleware functions, in case `sequence` is used. The next middleware functions will receive the new `Request`

Reviewer: Thanks! This is helpful! I will look at this more closely after our calls!

Reviewer: Ok, @ematipico - Please check [this commit](https://github.com/withastro/docs/pull/8914/commits/7dc8649f13631385971dc0d15842ce48798dd243) to see if this might be an accurate way to distinguish the two samples.

Since they do in fact act differently but the code comments are identical, I added a third `//` code comment line which should be different to help illustrate how the two examples work differently, or when you might use one instead of the other, or what the different effects are.

I also edited the intro paragraph to each one a tiny bit, but I think if we get that third code comment line just right, then this will be really helpful! So please check those in particular and correct them as necessary!

```js title="src/middleware.js"
import { isLoggedIn } from "~/auth.js"
export function onRequest (context, next) {
  if (!isLoggedIn(context) {
    // If the user is not logged in, update the Request to render the `/login` route and
    // add header to indicate where the user should be sent after a successful login.
    return next(new Request("/login", {
      headers: {
        "x-redirect-to": context.url.pathname
      }
    }));
  }

  return next();
};
```

The `next` function accepts the same payload of the [`Astro.rewrite() function`](/en/reference/api-reference/#astrorewrite). The location of the rewrite path can be provided as a string, URL, or `Request`.

> When you have multiple middleware functions chained via [sequence()](#chaining-middleware), submitting a path to `next()` will rewrite the `Request` in place and **it _won't_ execute again the middleware**. The next middleware function in the chain will receive the new `Request`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you have multiple middleware functions chained via [sequence()](#chaining-middleware), submitting a path to `next()` will rewrite the `Request` in place and the middleware will not execute again. The next middleware function in the chain will receive the new `Request` with its updated `context`:
```
How does this sound?

validation response
```

## Rewriting

<p><Since v="4.13.0" /></p>

The `APIContext` exposes a method called `rewrite()` which works the same way as [Astro.rewrite](/en/guides/routing/#rewrites).

Use `context.rewrite()` inside middleware to display a different page's content without [redirecting](/en/guides/routing/#dynamic-redirects) your visitor to a new page. This will trigger a new rendering phase, causing any middleware to be re-executed.

```js title="src/middleware.js"
import { isLoggedIn } from "~/auth.js"
export function onRequest (context, next) {
  if (!isLoggedIn(context) {
    // If the user is not logged in, update the Request to render the `/login` route and
    // add header to indicate where the user should be sent after a successful login.

>     // Re-execute middleware. CHECK THIS IS TRUE/THE POINT!!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Re-execute middleware.
```

    return context.rewrite(new Request("/login", {
      headers: {
        "x-redirect-to": context.url.pathname
      }
    }));
  }

  return next();
};
```

You can also pass the `next()` function an optional URL path parameter to rewrite the current `Request` without retriggering a new rendering phase. The location of the rewrite path can be provided as a string, URL, or `Request`:

```js title="src/middleware.js"
import { isLoggedIn } from "~/auth.js"
export function onRequest (context, next) {
  if (!isLoggedIn(context) {
    // If the user is not logged in, update the Request to render the `/login` route and
    // add header to indicate where the user should be sent after a successful login.

>     // Return a new `context` to any following middlewares. CHECK THIS IS TRUE/THE POINT!!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Return a new `context` to any following middlewares.
```

    return next(new Request("/login", {
      headers: {
        "x-redirect-to": context.url.pathname
      }
    }));
  }

  return next();
};
```

The `next()` function accepts the same payload of [the `Astro.rewrite() function`](/en/reference/api-reference/#astrorewrite). The location of the rewrite path can be provided as a string, URL, or `Request`.

When you have multiple middleware functions chained via [sequence()](#chaining-middleware), submitting a path to `next()` will rewrite the `Request` in place and the middleware will not execute again. The next middleware function in the chain will receive the new `Request` with its updated `context`:

```js title="src/middleware.js"
// Current URL is https://example.com/blog

// First middleware function
async function first(_, next) {

>   console.log(ctx.url.pathname) // this will log "/blog"
>   // Rewrite to a new route, the homepage 
>   // Return updated `ctx` which is passed to next function
>   return next("/")
> }
> 
> // Current URL is still https://example.com/blog
> 
> // Second middleware function
> async function second(ctx, next) {
>   // Receives updated `ctx`
>   console.log(ctx.url.pathname) // this will log  "/"    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  console.log(context.url.pathname) // this will log "/blog"
  // Rewrite to a new route, the homepage 
  // Return updated `context` which is passed to next function
  return next("/")
}

// Current URL is still https://example.com/blog

// Second middleware function
async function second(context, next) {
  // Receives updated `context`
  console.log(context.url.pathname) // this will log  "/"    
```

> // Current URL is https://example.com/blog
> 
> // First middleware function
> async function first(_, next) {
>   console.log(ctx.url.pathname) // this will log "/blog"
>   // Rewrite to a new route, the homepage 
>   // Return updated `ctx` which is passed to next function
>   return next("/")
> }
> 
> // Current URL is still https://example.com/blog
> 
> // Second middleware function
> async function second(ctx, next) {
>   // Receives updated `ctx`
>   console.log(ctx.url.pathname) // this will log  "/"    
>   return next()
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Current URL is https://example.com/blog

// First middleware function
async function first(_, next) {
  console.log(context.url.pathname) // this will log "/blog"
  // Rewrite to a new route, the homepage 
  // Return updated `context` which is passed to next function
  return next("/")
}

// Current URL is still https://example.com/blog

// Second middleware function
async function second(context, next) {
  // Receives updated `context`
  console.log(context.url.pathname) // this will log  "/"    
  return next()
}
```

> // First middleware function
> async function first(_, next) {
>   console.log(context.url.pathname) // this will log "/blog"
>   // Rewrite to a new route, the homepage 
>   // Return updated `context` which is passed to next function
>   return next("/")
> }
> 
> // Current URL is still https://example.com/blog
> 
> // Second middleware function
> async function second(context, next) {
>   // Receives updated `context`
>   console.log(context.url.pathname) // this will log  "/"    
>   return next()
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// First middleware function
async function first(_, next) {
  console.log(ctx.url.pathname) // this will log "/blog"
  // Rewrite to a new route, the homepage 
  // Return updated `ctx` which is passed to next function
  return next("/")
}

// Current URL is still https://example.com/blog

// Second middleware function
async function second(ctx, next) {
  // Receives updated `ctx`
  console.log(ctx.url.pathname) // this will log  "/"    
  return next()
}
```
